README.md, before:

# math-input

A WebComponent form element for inputting mathematical expressions. Spiritual successor of [adm-math](https://github.com/wyattpeak/adm-math).

This component defines the `<math-input>` field, which behaves as a regular form element. Its `value` attribute contains a representation of the typed expression in [content MathML](https://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/chapter4.html).

## Installation

The component is contained in two JavaScript files and one CSS file, `math-input.js`, `math-node.js` and `math-input.css`. Simply download them into your project folder, ensuring that the two JavaScript files are in the same directory.

## Usage

First include the module and stylesheet:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../math-input.css"></link>
<script type="module" src="math-input.js"></script>
```

**Note:** Due to the expanding nature of the input, if you wish to change its size use the `min-width` and `min-height` properties instead of `width` and `height`.

Then use it as a regular form element:

```html
<form...>
    <math-input name="fieldName" tabindex="1"></math-input>
</form>
```

**Note:** Due to WebComponent limitations, you must give the field a `tabindex`.

## Math Support

The field will accept the following characters as input:

`[a-zA-Z0-9α-ωΑ-Ω.+\-*\/()\|^]`

Most of the letters will be parsed as individual unknowns. Typing `xy`, for instance, will be interpreted as 'x times y'. There are, however, a few exceptions:

| Input | Interpretation |
| ----- | -------------- |
| `e`   | Euler's number |
| `π`   | The constant π ≈ 3.142 |
| `pi`  | The constant π ≈ 3.142 |
| `sin` | The sine function |
| `cos` | The cosine function |
| `tan` | The tangent function |
| `ln`  | The natural log function |

### Input Buttons

The field will also accept the following elements, which can't be easily typed:

| Element     | Symbol | 
| ----------- | ------ |
| Square root | `sqrt` |
| π           | `pi`   |

To input one of these, set the `<math-input>`'s `insert` attribute to its symbol in the right hand column. A buttton to add a square root symbol, for instance, might look like this:

```html
<input type="button" value="Square Root" onclick="document.getElementsByName('fieldName')[0].setAttribute('insert', 'sqrt');" />
```

Any value which could be inserted by keyboard can also be inserted in this way. A button for '0', for example, would look like this:

```html
<input type="button" value="0" onclick="document.getElementsByName('fieldName')[0].setAttribute('insert', '0');" />
```

The attribute will auto-clear when the element has been inserted, there's no need to clear it before inserting another element.

Commit message:

Add testing documentation to README
The test procedure hadn't been documented, which was particularly
confusing because it wasn't immediately obvious whether the dependencies
had been installed using NPM or Yarn.

Documentation now added to README.md.

README.md, after:

# math-input

A WebComponent form element for inputting mathematical expressions. Spiritual successor of [adm-math](https://github.com/wyattpeak/adm-math).

This component defines the `<math-input>` field, which behaves as a regular form element. Its `value` attribute contains a representation of the typed expression in [content MathML](https://www.w3.org/TR/MathML3/chapter4.html).

## Installation

The component is contained in two JavaScript files and one CSS file, `math-input.js`, `math-node.js` and `math-input.css`. Simply download them into your project folder, ensuring that the two JavaScript files are in the same directory.

## Testing (for development)

Testing is handled by Jest testing framework. To install the required dependencies, run `yarn install` in the project directory.

To execute the tests, run `yarn test`.

## Usage

First include the module and stylesheet:

```html
<link rel="stylesheet" href="../math-input.css"></link>
<script type="module" src="math-input.js"></script>
```

**Note:** Due to the expanding nature of the input, if you wish to change its size use the `min-width` and `min-height` properties instead of `width` and `height`.

Then use it as a regular form element:

```html
<form...>
    <math-input name="fieldName" tabindex="1"></math-input>
</form>
```

**Note:** Due to WebComponent limitations, you must give the field a `tabindex`.

## Math Support

The field will accept the following characters as input:

`[a-zA-Z0-9α-ωΑ-Ω.+\-*\/()\|^]`

Most of the letters will be parsed as individual unknowns. Typing `xy`, for instance, will be interpreted as 'x times y'. There are, however, a few exceptions:

| Input | Interpretation |
| ----- | -------------- |
| `e`   | Euler's number |
| `π`   | The constant π ≈ 3.142 |
| `pi`  | The constant π ≈ 3.142 |
| `sin` | The sine function |
| `cos` | The cosine function |
| `tan` | The tangent function |
| `ln`  | The natural log function |

### Input Buttons

The field will also accept the following elements, which can't be easily typed:

| Element     | Symbol | 
| ----------- | ------ |
| Square root | `sqrt` |
| π           | `pi`   |

To input one of these, set the `<math-input>`'s `insert` attribute to its symbol in the right hand column. A buttton to add a square root symbol, for instance, might look like this:

```html
<input type="button" value="Square Root" onclick="document.getElementsByName('fieldName')[0].setAttribute('insert', 'sqrt');" />
```

Any value which could be inserted by keyboard can also be inserted in this way. A button for '0', for example, would look like this:

```html
<input type="button" value="0" onclick="document.getElementsByName('fieldName')[0].setAttribute('insert', '0');" />
```

The attribute will auto-clear when the element has been inserted, there's no need to clear it before inserting another element.
